workflow-templates/check-yaml-task.md, before:

# "Check YAML" workflow (Task)

Run [yamllint](https://github.com/adrienverge/yamllint) on the YAML files of the repository.

NOTE: This workflow is focused on linting. Formatting checks for YAML are provided by the ["Check Prettier Formatting" workflow](check-prettier-formatting-task.md), so both should be used.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [check-yaml-task.yml](check-yaml-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

## Assets

- [`.yamllint.yml`](assets/check-yaml/.yamllint.yml) - `yamllint` configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`pyproject.toml`](assets/poetry/pyproject.toml) - [**Poetry**](https://python-poetry.org/) configuration.
  - Install to: repository root (unless a `pyproject.toml` file is already present).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-yaml-task/Taskfile.yml) - Linting task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/poetry-task/Taskfile.yml) - Installation task.
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

The code style defined in this file is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

### Dependencies

Add the tool dependency using this command:

```
task poetry:install && poetry add --dev "yamllint@^1.37.1"
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `pyproject.toml` and `poetry.lock` files.

### Configuration

If the repository contains generated or vendored files, they can be excluded from the check by adding them to the `ignore` field in the `.yamllint.yml` configuration file.

Reference:
https://yamllint.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check YAML status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml/badge.svg["Check YAML status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to lint YAML files

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, run yamllint to check the YAML files of
the repository for issues.

The .yamllint.yml file is used to configure yamllint:
https://yamllint.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, run [`yamllint`](https://github.com/adrienverge/yamllint) to check the YAML files of the repository for issues.

The `.yamllint.yml` file is used to configure `yamllint`:
https://yamllint.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-yaml-task.md, after:

# "Check YAML" workflow (Task)

Run [yamllint](https://github.com/adrienverge/yamllint) on the YAML files of the repository.

NOTE: This workflow is focused on linting. Formatting checks for YAML are provided by the ["Check Prettier Formatting" workflow](check-prettier-formatting-task.md), so both should be used.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [check-yaml-task.yml](check-yaml-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

## Assets

- [`.yamllint.yml`](assets/check-yaml/.yamllint.yml) - `yamllint` configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`pyproject.toml`](assets/poetry/pyproject.toml) - [**Poetry**](https://python-poetry.org/) configuration.
  - Install to: repository root (unless a `pyproject.toml` file is already present).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-yaml-task/Taskfile.yml) - Linting task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/poetry-task/Taskfile.yml) - Installation task.
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

The code style defined in this file is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

### Dependencies

Add the tool dependency using this command:

```
task poetry:install && poetry add --dev "yamllint@^1.37.1"
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `pyproject.toml` and `poetry.lock` files.

### Configuration

If the repository contains generated or vendored files, they can be excluded from the check by adding them to the `ignore` field in the `.yamllint.yml` configuration file.

Reference:
https://yamllint.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check YAML status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml/badge.svg["Check YAML status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-yaml-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure for linting YAML files

A task is provided to check for problems in the project's YAML files.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task is provided to check for problems in the project's YAML files.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
