workflow-templates/check-toc-task.md, before:

# "Check ToC" workflow (Task)

Check whether the generated table of contents in Markdown files matches their heading structure.

This should be used in repositories that generate the table of contents with [markdown-toc](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc).

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-toc-task.yml`](check-toc-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-toc-task/Taskfile.yml) - Table of contents generation task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev markdown-toc@^1.2.0
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Workflow

The workflow is configured to check a table of contents in `README.md`. If other files have a table of contents, adjust the following fields in `check-toc-task.yml`:

- `on.push.paths`
- `on.pull_request.paths`
- `jobs.check.strategy.matrix.file[]`

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check ToC status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml/badge.svg["Check ToC status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check for missed updates to generated ToC

On every push or pull request that affects the repository's Markdown files that contain a generated table of contents,
check whether the table of contents matches the file structure.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push or pull request that affects the repository's Markdown files that contain a generated table of contents, use [markdown-toc](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc) to check whether the table of contents matches the file structure.
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-toc-task.md, after:

# "Check ToC" workflow (Task)

Check whether the generated table of contents in Markdown files matches their heading structure.

This should be used in repositories that generate the table of contents with [markdown-toc](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc).

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-toc-task.yml`](check-toc-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-toc-task/Taskfile.yml) - Table of contents generation task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev markdown-toc@^1.2.0
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Workflow

The workflow is configured to check a table of contents in `README.md`. If other files have a table of contents, adjust the following fields in `check-toc-task.yml`:

- `on.push.paths`
- `on.pull_request.paths`
- `jobs.check.strategy.matrix.file[]`

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check ToC status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml/badge.svg["Check ToC status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-toc-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to generate a ToC

A task is provided to use the "markdown-toc" tool to generate a table of contents for Markdown files in the project.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task is provided to use the [**markdown-toc**](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc) tool to generate a table of contents for Markdown files in the project.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
