workflow-templates/check-general-formatting-task.md, before:

# "Check General Formatting" workflow (task)

Use [editorconfig-checker](https://github.com/editorconfig-checker/editorconfig-checker) to check if the formatting of the repository's files matches the [`.editorconfig`](https://editorconfig.org/).

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-general-formatting-task.yml`](check-general-formatting-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.editorconfig`](assets/general/.editorconfig)
  - Install to: repository root
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-general-formatting-task/Taskfile.yml) - formatting check [task](https://taskfile.dev/).
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.ecrc`](assets/check-general-formatting/.ecrc) - editorconfig-checker configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root

The formatting style defined in `.editorconfig` is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

### Configuration

If the repository contains generated or vendored files, they can be excluded from the check by adding them to the `Exclude` array in the `.ecrc` configuration file.

Reference:
https://github.com/editorconfig-checker/editorconfig-checker#configuration

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check General Formatting status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg["Check General Formatting status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check general file formatting

On every push, pull request, and periodically, check whether the repository's files are formatted according to
.editorconfig.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push, pull request, and periodically, use [editorconfig-checker](https://github.com/editorconfig-checker/editorconfig-checker) check whether the repository's files are formatted according to [`.editorconfig`](https://editorconfig.org/).
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-general-formatting-task.md, after:

# "Check General Formatting" workflow (task)

Use [editorconfig-checker](https://github.com/editorconfig-checker/editorconfig-checker) to check if the formatting of the repository's files matches the [`.editorconfig`](https://editorconfig.org/).

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-general-formatting-task.yml`](check-general-formatting-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.editorconfig`](assets/general/.editorconfig)
  - Install to: repository root
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-general-formatting-task/Taskfile.yml) - formatting check [task](https://taskfile.dev/).
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.ecrc`](assets/check-general-formatting/.ecrc) - editorconfig-checker configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root

The formatting style defined in `.editorconfig` is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

### Configuration

If the repository contains generated or vendored files, they can be excluded from the check by adding them to the `Exclude` array in the `.ecrc` configuration file.

Reference:
https://github.com/editorconfig-checker/editorconfig-checker#configuration

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check General Formatting status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg["Check General Formatting status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-general-formatting-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure for checking general file formatting

The project's .editorconfig file defines the fundamental formatting style for use in the project files.

A task is added to use the "editorconfig-checker" tool to verify the formatting of the project files is compliant.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
The project's [`.editorconfig`](https://editorconfig.org/) file defines the fundamental formatting style for use in the project files.

A task is added to use the [**editorconfig-checker**](https://github.com/editorconfig-checker/editorconfig-checker) tool to verify the formatting of the project files is compliant.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
