workflow-templates/check-taskfiles.md, before:

# "Check Taskfiles" workflow

Validate the repository's [Taskfiles](https://taskfile.dev/#/usage) against the JSON schema.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-taskfiles.yml`](check-taskfiles.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev ajv-cli@^5.0.0 ajv-formats@^3.0.1
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Workflow

The workflow is configured to check all files named `Taskfile.yml` in the repository. If there are additional taskfiles, add them to the following fields in `check-taskfiles.yml`:

- `on.push.paths`
- `on.pull_request.paths`
- `jobs.validate.strategy.matrix.file[]`

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Taskfiles status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml/badge.svg["Check Taskfiles status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to validate Taskfiles

On every push or pull request that affects the repository's Taskfiles, and periodically, validate them
against the JSON schema.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push or pull request that affects the repository's [Taskfiles](https://taskfile.dev/#/usage), and periodically, validate them against the JSON schema.
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-taskfiles.md, after:

# "Check Taskfiles" workflow

Validate the repository's [Taskfiles](https://taskfile.dev/#/usage) against the JSON schema.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-taskfiles.yml`](check-taskfiles.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev ajv-cli@^5.0.0 ajv-formats@^3.0.1
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Workflow

The workflow is configured to check all files named `Taskfile.yml` in the repository. If there are additional taskfiles, add them to the following fields in `check-taskfiles.yml`:

- `on.push.paths`
- `on.pull_request.paths`
- `jobs.validate.strategy.matrix.file[]`

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Taskfiles status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml/badge.svg["Check Taskfiles status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-taskfiles.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to validate Taskfiles

A GitHub Actions workflow is provided to automatically validate the project's Taskfiles against the JSON schema.

The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external
changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A GitHub Actions workflow is provided to automatically validate the project's [Taskfiles](https://taskfile.dev/#/usage) against the JSON schema.

The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.

On every push or pull request that affects the repository's [Taskfiles](https://taskfile.dev/#/usage), and periodically, validate them against [the JSON schema](https://taskfile.dev/schema.json).
```
