workflow-templates/check-javascript-task.md, before:

# "Check JavaScript" workflow (Task)

Workflow file: [check-javascript-task.yml](check-javascript-task.yml)

Use [**ESLint**](https://eslint.org/) to lint the repository's JavaScript files.

**Note:** This workflow is focused on linting. Formatting checks for JavaScript are provided by the ["Check Prettier Formatting" workflow (Task)](https://github.com/arduino/tooling-project-assets/blob/main/workflow-templates/check-prettier-formatting-task.md), so both should be used.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-javascript-task.yml`](check-javascript-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.eslintrc.yml`](assets/check-javascript/.eslintrc.yml) - **ESLint** configuration file.
  ❗ The code style defined in this file is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino projects and should not be modified.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-javascript-task/Taskfile.yml) - JavaScript linting tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev eslint@^8.57.0 eslint-config-prettier@^10.1.3
npx install-peerdeps --dev eslint-config-airbnb-base
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```gitignore
/node_modules/
```

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check JavaScript status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml/badge.svg["Check JavaScript status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to lint JavaScript code

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, and periodically, run ESLint on the repository's JavaScript
files.

ESLint is configured via the .eslintrc.yml file:
https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/configure/configuration-files
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, and periodically, run [**ESLint**](https://eslint.org/) on the repository's JavaScript files.

**ESLint** is configured via the `.eslintrc.yml` file:
https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/configure/configuration-files
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-javascript-task.md, after:

# "Check JavaScript" workflow (Task)

Workflow file: [check-javascript-task.yml](check-javascript-task.yml)

Use [**ESLint**](https://eslint.org/) to lint the repository's JavaScript files.

**Note:** This workflow is focused on linting. Formatting checks for JavaScript are provided by the ["Check Prettier Formatting" workflow (Task)](https://github.com/arduino/tooling-project-assets/blob/main/workflow-templates/check-prettier-formatting-task.md), so both should be used.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-javascript-task.yml`](check-javascript-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.eslintrc.yml`](assets/check-javascript/.eslintrc.yml) - **ESLint** configuration file.
  ❗ The code style defined in this file is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino projects and should not be modified.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-javascript-task/Taskfile.yml) - JavaScript linting tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev eslint@^8.57.0 eslint-config-prettier@^10.1.3
npx install-peerdeps --dev eslint-config-airbnb-base
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```gitignore
/node_modules/
```

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check JavaScript status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml/badge.svg["Check JavaScript status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-javascript-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to lint JavaScript code

A task is provided to run ESLint on the project's JavaScript files.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task is provided to run [**ESLint**](https://eslint.org/) on the project's JavaScript files.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
