workflow-templates/check-go-dependencies-task.md, before:

# "Check Go Dependencies" workflow (Task)

Use [**Licensed**](https://github.com/licensee/licensed) to check if the Go project has dependencies with incompatible licenses.

**Licensed** detects all dependencies of the project, detects their license types, and then checks them against a dependency license approval configuration.

There are several options for configuring approvals. The most useful being:

- [Allowed licenses](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/allowed_licenses.md) - allow any dependency that has this license type.
- [Reviewed dependency](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/reviewing_dependencies.md) - allow specific dependencies that don't pass the global allowed license configuration, but have been individually reviewed and found acceptable.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-go-dependencies-task.yml`](check-go-dependencies-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-dependencies-task/Taskfile.yml) - [tasks](https://taskfile.dev/) to cache metadata for and check compatibility of dependency licenses.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-go-dependencies-task/Taskfile.yml) - tasks to check **Go** dependencies.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.licensed.yml`](assets/check-dependencies) - suggested allowed dependency license types list for the project's license type.
  - Install to: repository root.

### Configuration

The **Licensed** tool is configured via `.licensed.yml` configuration file, located in the repository root folder:

https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration.md

#### Project paths

By default, the project in the root of the repository will be checked. If the project is in a subfolder of the repository or if the repository contains multiple projects with dependencies that should be checked then the path to each project should be defined via [`apps[*].source_path` keys](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/application_source.md#application-source-path) in `.licensed.yml`.

#### Allowed licenses

A list of [allowed license types](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/allowed_licenses.md) can be defined in the `.licensed.yml` configuration file under:

- The `allowed` key to apply to all projects.
- The `apps[*].allowed` key to apply to a specific project.

All dependencies that are determined to use one of these licenses will be automatically allowed.

[SPDX license identifiers](https://spdx.org/licenses/) are used, except converted to all lowercase letters (e.g., use `gpl-3.0-or-later` for the GPL 3.0 (or later) license).

#### Metadata cache

Dependency license metadata is stored in the `.licenses` folder. This should be committed to the repository. Generate or update the cache by running this command:

```
task general:cache-dep-licenses
```

Alternatively, you can download the `dep-licenses-cache` [workflow artifact](https://docs.github.com/actions/managing-workflow-runs/downloading-workflow-artifacts) that is generated by the "Check Go Dependencies" workflow run when the cache is found to be outdated by the workflow's "check-cache" job.

#### Unrecognized licenses

**Licensed** uses the [**licensee**](https://github.com/licensee/licensee) tool to automatically detect the license type of the dependency. This will not be possible if a dependency author has not documented the license in a standardized fashion. In this case, the dependency licensing must be manually reviewed. [**licensee**](https://github.com/licensee/licensee) is a useful tool for this manual review process (use `licensee --diff`).

Once the license type has been determined, find the dependency's metadata file under the `.licenses` folder and update its `license` key with the [SPDX license identifier](https://spdx.org/licenses/) of the dependency's license, converted to all lowercase letters. If the file containing the license was not found by **Licensed**, define its path in the `licenses[*].sources` key and add the text of the license in `licenses[*].text`. This will allow **Licensed** to check if the license has changed when the dependency version is updated.

#### Reviewed dependencies

A dependency might use a license type that can not be allowed globally via the `allowed` key of the `.licensed.yml` configuration file, but that is determined to be acceptable for that specific dependency.

In this case, the dependency's identifier must be added to the `reviewed.<source ID>[*]` key in the `.licensed.yml` configuration file.

### Documentation

#### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Go Dependencies status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Go Dependencies status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

#### Development Guide

Add the following under the "**Running Checks**" section of the project's development documentation (template available [here](../documentation-templates/contributor-guide/task/development.md)):

````markdown
### Dependency License Metadata

Metadata about the license types of all dependencies is cached in the repository. To update this cache, run the following command from the repository root folder:

```text
task general:cache-dep-licenses
```

The necessary **Licensed** tool can be installed by following [these instructions](https://github.com/licensee/licensed#installation).

Unfortunately, **Licensed** does not have Windows support.

An updated cache is also generated whenever the cache is found to be outdated by the "**Check Go Dependencies**" CI workflow and made available for download via the `dep-licenses-cache` [workflow artifact](https://docs.github.com/actions/managing-workflow-runs/downloading-workflow-artifacts).
````

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check for unapproved Go dependency licenses

A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here for checking the license types of Go project dependencies.

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, the CI workflow will check:

- If the dependency licenses cache is up to date
- If any of the project's dependencies have an unapproved license type.

Approval can be based on:

- Universally allowed license type
- Individual dependency
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here for checking the license types of Go project dependencies.

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, the CI workflow will use [**Licensed**](https://github.com/licensee/licensed) to check:

- If the dependency licenses cache is up to date
- If any of the project's dependencies have an unapproved license type.

Approval can be based on:

- [Allowed license type](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/allowed_licenses.md)
- [Individual dependency](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/reviewing_dependencies.md)
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-go-dependencies-task.md, after:

# "Check Go Dependencies" workflow (Task)

Use [**Licensed**](https://github.com/licensee/licensed) to check if the Go project has dependencies with incompatible licenses.

**Licensed** detects all dependencies of the project, detects their license types, and then checks them against a dependency license approval configuration.

There are several options for configuring approvals. The most useful being:

- [Allowed licenses](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/allowed_licenses.md) - allow any dependency that has this license type.
- [Reviewed dependency](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/reviewing_dependencies.md) - allow specific dependencies that don't pass the global allowed license configuration, but have been individually reviewed and found acceptable.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-go-dependencies-task.yml`](check-go-dependencies-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-dependencies-task/Taskfile.yml) - [tasks](https://taskfile.dev/) to cache metadata for and check compatibility of dependency licenses.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-go-dependencies-task/Taskfile.yml) - tasks to check **Go** dependencies.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.licensed.yml`](assets/check-dependencies) - suggested allowed dependency license types list for the project's license type.
  - Install to: repository root.

### Configuration

The **Licensed** tool is configured via `.licensed.yml` configuration file, located in the repository root folder:

https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration.md

#### Project paths

By default, the project in the root of the repository will be checked. If the project is in a subfolder of the repository or if the repository contains multiple projects with dependencies that should be checked then the path to each project should be defined via [`apps[*].source_path` keys](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/application_source.md#application-source-path) in `.licensed.yml`.

#### Allowed licenses

A list of [allowed license types](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/allowed_licenses.md) can be defined in the `.licensed.yml` configuration file under:

- The `allowed` key to apply to all projects.
- The `apps[*].allowed` key to apply to a specific project.

All dependencies that are determined to use one of these licenses will be automatically allowed.

[SPDX license identifiers](https://spdx.org/licenses/) are used, except converted to all lowercase letters (e.g., use `gpl-3.0-or-later` for the GPL 3.0 (or later) license).

#### Metadata cache

Dependency license metadata is stored in the `.licenses` folder. This should be committed to the repository. Generate or update the cache by running this command:

```
task general:cache-dep-licenses
```

Alternatively, you can download the `dep-licenses-cache` [workflow artifact](https://docs.github.com/actions/managing-workflow-runs/downloading-workflow-artifacts) that is generated by the "Check Go Dependencies" workflow run when the cache is found to be outdated by the workflow's "check-cache" job.

#### Unrecognized licenses

**Licensed** uses the [**licensee**](https://github.com/licensee/licensee) tool to automatically detect the license type of the dependency. This will not be possible if a dependency author has not documented the license in a standardized fashion. In this case, the dependency licensing must be manually reviewed. [**licensee**](https://github.com/licensee/licensee) is a useful tool for this manual review process (use `licensee --diff`).

Once the license type has been determined, find the dependency's metadata file under the `.licenses` folder and update its `license` key with the [SPDX license identifier](https://spdx.org/licenses/) of the dependency's license, converted to all lowercase letters. If the file containing the license was not found by **Licensed**, define its path in the `licenses[*].sources` key and add the text of the license in `licenses[*].text`. This will allow **Licensed** to check if the license has changed when the dependency version is updated.

#### Reviewed dependencies

A dependency might use a license type that can not be allowed globally via the `allowed` key of the `.licensed.yml` configuration file, but that is determined to be acceptable for that specific dependency.

In this case, the dependency's identifier must be added to the `reviewed.<source ID>[*]` key in the `.licensed.yml` configuration file.

### Documentation

#### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Go Dependencies status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Go Dependencies status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-dependencies-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

#### Development Guide

Add the following under the "**Running Checks**" section of the project's development documentation (template available [here](../documentation-templates/contributor-guide/task/development.md)):

````markdown
### Dependency License Metadata

Metadata about the license types of all dependencies is cached in the repository. To update this cache, run the following command from the repository root folder:

```text
task general:cache-dep-licenses
```

The necessary **Licensed** tool can be installed by following [these instructions](https://github.com/licensee/licensed#installation).

Unfortunately, **Licensed** does not have Windows support.

An updated cache is also generated whenever the cache is found to be outdated by the "**Check Go Dependencies**" CI workflow and made available for download via the `dep-licenses-cache` [workflow artifact](https://docs.github.com/actions/managing-workflow-runs/downloading-workflow-artifacts).
````

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to check for unapproved Go dependency licenses

Tasks and a GitHub Actions workflow are added for checking the license types of Go project dependencies.

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, the CI workflow will run the tasks to check:

- If the dependency licenses cache is up to date
- If any of the project's dependencies have an unapproved license type.

Approval can be based on:

- Universally allowed license type
- Individual dependency
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here for checking the license types of Go project dependencies.

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, the CI workflow will use [**Licensed**](https://github.com/licensee/licensed) to check:

- If the dependency licenses cache is up to date
- If any of the project's dependencies have an unapproved license type.

Approval can be based on:

- [Allowed license type](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/allowed_licenses.md)
- [Individual dependency](https://github.com/licensee/licensed/blob/main/docs/configuration/reviewing_dependencies.md)
```
