workflow-templates/check-npm-task.md, before:

# "Check npm" workflow (Task)

Check for problems with configuration files of the [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) JavaScript package manager.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [check-npm-task.yml](check-npm-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - Validation task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/windows-task/Taskfile.yml) - Utility tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

If the project contains **npm**-managed projects (i.e., a folder containing a `package.json` file) in paths other than the root of the repository, run the command again from each of those paths.

#### Workflow

If the project contains **npm**-managed projects (i.e., a folder containing a `package.json` file) in paths other than the root of the repository, add their paths to the [job matrices](https://docs.github.com/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstrategymatrix) of `check-npm-task.yml` at:

- `jobs.validate.strategy.matrix.project[].path`
- `jobs.check-sync.strategy.matrix.project[].path`

## Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check npm status](https://github.com/REPO_OWNER/REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/REPO_OWNER/REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml)
```

Replace the `REPO_OWNER` and `REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml/badge.svg["Check YAML status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check for problems with npm configuration files

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, and periodically:

- Validate package.json against its JSON schema.
- Check for forgotten package-lock.json syncs.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, and periodically:

- Validate [`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json) against [its JSON schema](https://json.schemastore.org/package.json).
- Check for forgotten [`package-lock.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-lock-json) syncs.
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-npm-task.md, after:

# "Check npm" workflow (Task)

Check for problems with configuration files of the [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) JavaScript package manager.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [check-npm-task.yml](check-npm-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - Validation task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/windows-task/Taskfile.yml) - Utility tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

If the project contains **npm**-managed projects (i.e., a folder containing a `package.json` file) in paths other than the root of the repository, run the command again from each of those paths.

#### Workflow

If the project contains **npm**-managed projects (i.e., a folder containing a `package.json` file) in paths other than the root of the repository, add their paths to the [job matrices](https://docs.github.com/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstrategymatrix) of `check-npm-task.yml` at:

- `jobs.validate.strategy.matrix.project[].path`
- `jobs.check-sync.strategy.matrix.project[].path`

## Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check npm status](https://github.com/REPO_OWNER/REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/REPO_OWNER/REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml)
```

Replace the `REPO_OWNER` and `REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml/badge.svg["Check YAML status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-npm-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to check for problems with npm configuration files

Tasks are provided to check for problems in the project's npm configuration files:

* Validate package.json against its JSON schema.
* Check for forgotten package-lock.json syncs.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
Tasks are provided to check for problems in the project's npm configuration files:

- Validate [`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json) against [its JSON schema](https://json.schemastore.org/package.json).
- Check for forgotten [`package-lock.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-lock-json) syncs.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
