workflow-templates/check-markdown-task.md, before:

# "Check Markdown" workflow (Task)

Check the repository's Markdown files for problems:

- Use [markdownlint-cli](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli) to check for common problems and formatting.
- Use [markdown-link-check](https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check) to check for broken links.

NOTE: This workflow is focused on linting. Formatting checks for Markdown are provided by the ["Check Prettier Formatting" workflow](check-prettier-formatting-task.md), so both should be used.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-markdown-task.yml`](check-markdown-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.markdown-link-check.json`](assets/check-markdown/.markdown-link-check.json) - markdown-link-check configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.markdownlint.yml`](assets/check-markdown/.markdownlint.yml) - markdownlint configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.markdownlintignore`](assets/check-markdown/.markdownlintignore) - markdownlint configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-markdown-task/Taskfile.yml) - Markdown tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

The code style defined in `.markdownlint.yml` is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev markdown-link-check@^3.13.7 markdownlint-cli@^0.45.0
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Taskfile

Add any documentation generation processes to the `docs:generate` umbrella task.

#### markdownlint

In the event the repository contains externally maintained Markdown files, `markdownlint` can be configured to ignore them via a `.markdownlintignore` file:
https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli#ignoring-files

#### markdown-link-check

Advanced configuration of `markdown-link-check` can be done via the [`.markdown-link-check.json`](assets/check-markdown/.markdown-link-check.json) configuration file:
https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check#config-file-format

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Markdown status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Markdown status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check Markdown files for problems

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, and periodically, check the repository's Markdown files for
problems:

- Use markdownlint to check for common problems and formatting.
- Use markdown-link-check to check for broken links.

The Arduino tooling Markdown style is defined by the `.markdownlint.yml` file.

In the event the repository contains externally maintained Markdown files, markdownlint can be configured to ignore them
via a `.markdownlintignore` file:
https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli#ignoring-files

markdown-link-check is configured via the `.markdown-link-check.json` file:
https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check#config-file-format
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, and periodically, check the repository's Markdown files for
problems:

- Use [markdownlint-cli](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli) to check for common problems and formatting.
- Use [markdown-link-check](https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check) to check for broken links.

The Arduino tooling Markdown style is defined by the `.markdownlint.yml` file.

In the event the repository contains externally maintained Markdown files, markdownlint can be configured to ignore them via a `.markdownlintignore` file:
https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli#ignoring-files

markdown-link-check is configured via the `.markdown-link-check.json` file:
https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check#config-file-format
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-markdown-task.md, after:

# "Check Markdown" workflow (Task)

Check the repository's Markdown files for problems:

- Use [markdownlint-cli](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli) to check for common problems and formatting.
- Use [markdown-link-check](https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check) to check for broken links.

NOTE: This workflow is focused on linting. Formatting checks for Markdown are provided by the ["Check Prettier Formatting" workflow](check-prettier-formatting-task.md), so both should be used.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-markdown-task.yml`](check-markdown-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.markdown-link-check.json`](assets/check-markdown/.markdown-link-check.json) - markdown-link-check configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.markdownlint.yml`](assets/check-markdown/.markdownlint.yml) - markdownlint configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.markdownlintignore`](assets/check-markdown/.markdownlintignore) - markdownlint configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-markdown-task/Taskfile.yml) - Markdown tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

The code style defined in `.markdownlint.yml` is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev markdown-link-check@^3.13.7 markdownlint-cli@^0.45.0
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Taskfile

Add any documentation generation processes to the `docs:generate` umbrella task.

#### markdownlint

In the event the repository contains externally maintained Markdown files, `markdownlint` can be configured to ignore them via a `.markdownlintignore` file:
https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli#ignoring-files

#### markdown-link-check

Advanced configuration of `markdown-link-check` can be done via the [`.markdown-link-check.json`](assets/check-markdown/.markdown-link-check.json) configuration file:
https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check#config-file-format

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Markdown status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Markdown status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-markdown-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to check for problems in Markdown files

Tasks are provided to check for problems in the project's Markdown files:

- Use markdownlint to check for common problems and formatting.
- Use markdown-link-check to check for broken links.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
Add infrastructure to check for problems in Markdown files

Tasks are provided to check for problems in the project's Markdown files:

- Use [markdownlint-cli](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli) to check for common problems and formatting.
- Use [markdown-link-check](https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check) to check for broken links.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
