workflow-templates/check-go-task.md, before:

# "Check Go" workflow (Task)

Lint and check formatting of a [Go](https://golang.org/) module.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-go-task.yml`](check-go-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-go-task/Taskfile.yml) - Linting and formatting [tasks](https://taskfile.dev/).
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.golangci.yml`](assets/go/.golangci.yml) - Contains all the go-linting configurations.
  - Install to: repository root as `.golangci.yml`
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/go-task/Taskfile.yml) - `DEFAULT_GO_MODULE_PATH` and `DEFAULT_GO_PACKAGES` variables
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

### Configuration

If the project contains Go modules in paths other than the root of the repository, add their paths to the [job matrices](https://docs.github.com/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstrategymatrix) of `check-go-task.yml` at:

- `jobs.check-errors.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-outdated.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-style.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-formatting.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-config.strategy.matrix.module[].path`

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Go status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Go status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to lint and check formatting of Go code

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, check the Go module for:

- Common detectable errors in the code.
- Use of outdated APIs
- Code style violations
- Code formatting inconsistency
- Misconfiguration
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, check the repository's [Go](https://golang.org/) module for:

- Common detectable errors in the code.
- Use of outdated APIs
- Code style violations
- Code formatting inconsistency
- Misconfiguration
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-go-task.md, after:

# "Check Go" workflow (Task)

Lint and check formatting of a [Go](https://golang.org/) module.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-go-task.yml`](check-go-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-go-task/Taskfile.yml) - Linting and formatting [tasks](https://taskfile.dev/).
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.golangci.yml`](assets/go/.golangci.yml) - Contains all the go-linting configurations.
  - Install to: repository root as `.golangci.yml`
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/go-task/Taskfile.yml) - `DEFAULT_GO_MODULE_PATH` and `DEFAULT_GO_PACKAGES` variables
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

### Configuration

If the project contains Go modules in paths other than the root of the repository, add their paths to the [job matrices](https://docs.github.com/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstrategymatrix) of `check-go-task.yml` at:

- `jobs.check-errors.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-outdated.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-style.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-formatting.strategy.matrix.module[].path`
- `jobs.check-config.strategy.matrix.module[].path`

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Go status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Go status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-go-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to lint and format Go code

Tasks are provided to format and check for problems in the project's Go modules.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
Tasks are provided to format and check for problems in the project's [Go](https://golang.org/) modules.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
