workflow-templates/check-prettier-formatting-task.md, before:

# "Check Prettier Formatting" workflow (Task)

Use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) to check formatting. Supported languages include:

- JavaScript
- TypeScript
- CSS
- HTML
- JSON
- Markdown
- TOML ([via plugin](#toml-support-optional))
- YAML

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-prettier-formatting-task.yml`](check-prettier-formatting-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-prettier-formatting-task/Taskfile.yml) - Formatting task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.prettierignore`](assets/check-prettier-formatting/.prettierignore) - ignore paths configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev prettier@^3.5.3
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Prettier

Prettier should be configured via a `.prettierignore` file to ignore any externally maintained files contained in the repository:
https://prettier.io/docs/en/ignore.html

Support for additional languages can be added to Prettier via plugins:
https://prettier.io/docs/en/plugins.html

Prettier automatically determines the language based on file name. In cases where it is not able to recognize a file, the parser can be specified in a `.prettierrc.yml` configuration file:
https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration.html#setting-the-parserdocsenoptionshtmlparser-option

The default Prettier code style is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### TOML Support (Optional)

If the project contains manually maintained [TOML](https://toml.io/) language files, some additional configuration is needed to add support to Prettier for this language.

#### Assets

- [`.prettierrc.yml`](assets/check-prettier-formatting/toml/.prettierrc.yml) - Prettier configuration file
  - Install to: repository root.

#### Dependencies

Add the TOML support dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev prettier-plugin-toml@^2.0.2
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Prettier Formatting status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Prettier Formatting status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check for Prettier formatting compliance

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, check whether the formatting of supported
files is compliant with the Prettier style.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, check whether the formatting of supported files is compliant with the [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) style.
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-prettier-formatting-task.md, after:

# "Check Prettier Formatting" workflow (Task)

Use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) to check formatting. Supported languages include:

- JavaScript
- TypeScript
- CSS
- HTML
- JSON
- Markdown
- TOML ([via plugin](#toml-support-optional))
- YAML

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-prettier-formatting-task.yml`](check-prettier-formatting-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-prettier-formatting-task/Taskfile.yml) - Formatting task.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - npm tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.prettierignore`](assets/check-prettier-formatting/.prettierignore) - ignore paths configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev prettier@^3.5.3
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

#### Prettier

Prettier should be configured via a `.prettierignore` file to ignore any externally maintained files contained in the repository:
https://prettier.io/docs/en/ignore.html

Support for additional languages can be added to Prettier via plugins:
https://prettier.io/docs/en/plugins.html

Prettier automatically determines the language based on file name. In cases where it is not able to recognize a file, the parser can be specified in a `.prettierrc.yml` configuration file:
https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration.html#setting-the-parserdocsenoptionshtmlparser-option

The default Prettier code style is the official standardized style to be used in all Arduino tooling projects and should not be modified.

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

### TOML Support (Optional)

If the project contains manually maintained [TOML](https://toml.io/) language files, some additional configuration is needed to add support to Prettier for this language.

#### Assets

- [`.prettierrc.yml`](assets/check-prettier-formatting/toml/.prettierrc.yml) - Prettier configuration file
  - Install to: repository root.

#### Dependencies

Add the TOML support dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev prettier-plugin-toml@^2.0.2
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Prettier Formatting status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Prettier Formatting status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-prettier-formatting-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure for code formatting via Prettier

A task is provided to format project files using the Prettier code formatting tool.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task is provided to format project files using the [**Prettier**](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) code formatting tool.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
