workflow-templates/check-action-metadata-task.md, before:

# "Check Action Metadata" workflow (Task)

Validate the [`action.yml`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions) GitHub Actions action metadata file against its JSON schema.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-action-metadata-task.yml`](check-action-metadata-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-action-metadata-task/Taskfile.yml) - task for validating `action.yml`
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - **npm** tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/windows-task/Taskfile.yml) - utility tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [**npm**](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev ajv-cli@^5.0.0
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Action Metadata status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Action Metadata status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```text
Add CI workflow to validate action.yml

A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here for validating the action.yml metadata file of GitHub Actions
actions.

On every push or pull request that affects the metadata file, and periodically, validate action.yml against its JSON
schema.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here for validating the [`action.yml`](https://docs.github.com/actions/creating-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions) metadata file of [GitHub Actions actions](https://docs.github.com/actions/learn-github-actions/understanding-github-actions#actions).

On every push or pull request that affects the metadata file, and periodically, validate `action.yml` against [its JSON schema](https://json.schemastore.org/github-action.json).
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/check-action-metadata-task.md, after:

# "Check Action Metadata" workflow (Task)

Validate the [`action.yml`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions) GitHub Actions action metadata file against its JSON schema.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`check-action-metadata-task.yml`](check-action-metadata-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/check-action-metadata-task/Taskfile.yml) - task for validating `action.yml`
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`.npmrc`](assets/npm/.npmrc) - **npm** configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root.
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/npm-task/Taskfile.yml) - **npm** tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/windows-task/Taskfile.yml) - utility tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).

### Dependencies

The tool dependencies of this workflow are managed by [**npm**](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Add the dependencies by running this command:

```text
npm install --save-dev ajv-cli@^5.0.0
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files.

### Configuration

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to [`/.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore):

```
/node_modules/
```

#### Node.js

Configure the version of [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) used for development of the project by running the following command from a terminal in the project repository folder:

```text
npm pkg set engines.node=22.x
```

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Check Action Metadata status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml/badge.svg["Check Action Metadata status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/check-action-metadata-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```text
Add CI workflow to validate action.yml

A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here to check for problems in the `action.yml` metadata file of GitHub Actions actions by validating it against the JSON schema.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task and GitHub Actions workflow are provided here to check for problems in the [`action.yml`](https://docs.github.com/actions/creating-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions) metadata file of [GitHub Actions actions](https://docs.github.com/actions/learn-github-actions/understanding-github-actions#actions) by validating it against [the JSON schema](https://json.schemastore.org/github-action.json).

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the tasks. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
