workflow-templates/spell-check-task.md, before:

# "Spell Check" workflow (Task)

Use [codespell](https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell) to check for commonly misspelled words in the repository files.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [spell-check-task.yml](spell-check-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

## Assets

- [.codespellrc](assets/spell-check/.codespellrc) - codespell configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/spell-check-task/Taskfile.yml) - spell check and spelling correction tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/poetry-task/Taskfile.yml) - Installation task.
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

### Dependencies

The `codespell` tool dependency is managed by [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/).

Install Poetry by following these instructions:<br />
https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation

If your project does not already use Poetry, you can initialize the [`pyproject.toml`](https://python-poetry.org/docs/pyproject/) file using these commands:

```
poetry init --python="^3.9" --dev-dependency="codespell@^2.4.0"
poetry install
```

If already using Poetry, add the tool using this command:

```
poetry add --dev "codespell@^2.4.0"
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `pyproject.toml` and `poetry.lock` files.

### Configuration

If the repository contains generated or vendored files, they can be excluded from the check by adding them to the `skip` field in the `.codespellrc` configuration file.

#### False positives

In the event of a false positive, the problematic word should be added, in all lowercase, to the `ignore-words-list` field of `./.codespellrc`. Regardless of the case of the word in the false positive, it must be in all lowercase in the ignore list. The ignore list is comma-separated with no spaces.

Reference:
https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell#using-a-config-file

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Spell Check status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml/badge.svg["Spell Check status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to check for commonly misspelled words

On every push, pull request, and periodically, use codespell to check for commonly
misspelled words.

In the event of a false positive, the problematic word should be added, in all lowercase, to the `ignore-words-list`
field of `.codespellrc`. Regardless of the case of the word in the false positive, it must be in all lowercase in the
ignore list. The ignore list is comma-separated with no spaces.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push, pull request, and periodically, use [codespell](https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell) to check for commonly misspelled words.

In the event of a false positive, the problematic word should be added, in all lowercase, to the `ignore-words-list` field of `.codespellrc`. Regardless of the case of the word in the false positive, it must be in all lowercase in the ignore list. The ignore list is comma-separated with no spaces.
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/spell-check-task.md, after:

# "Spell Check" workflow (Task)

Use [codespell](https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell) to check for commonly misspelled words in the repository files.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [spell-check-task.yml](spell-check-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

## Assets

- [.codespellrc](assets/spell-check/.codespellrc) - codespell configuration file.
  - Install to: repository root
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/spell-check-task/Taskfile.yml) - spell check and spelling correction tasks.
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/poetry-task/Taskfile.yml) - Installation task.
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

### Dependencies

The `codespell` tool dependency is managed by [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/).

Install Poetry by following these instructions:<br />
https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation

If your project does not already use Poetry, you can initialize the [`pyproject.toml`](https://python-poetry.org/docs/pyproject/) file using these commands:

```
poetry init --python="^3.9" --dev-dependency="codespell@^2.4.0"
poetry install
```

If already using Poetry, add the tool using this command:

```
poetry add --dev "codespell@^2.4.0"
```

Commit the resulting changes to the `pyproject.toml` and `poetry.lock` files.

### Configuration

If the repository contains generated or vendored files, they can be excluded from the check by adding them to the `skip` field in the `.codespellrc` configuration file.

#### False positives

In the event of a false positive, the problematic word should be added, in all lowercase, to the `ignore-words-list` field of `./.codespellrc`. Regardless of the case of the word in the false positive, it must be in all lowercase in the ignore list. The ignore list is comma-separated with no spaces.

Reference:
https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell#using-a-config-file

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Spell Check status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml)
```

Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml/badge.svg["Spell Check status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/spell-check-task.yml"]
```

Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to check spelling

Tasks are provided to check for commonly misspelled words in the project files, and correct those misspellings.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the spell check task. The workflow is triggered on any push
or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem.
It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
Tasks are provided to check for commonly misspelled words in the project files, and correct those misspellings.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the spell check task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.

In the event of a false positive, the problematic word should be added, in all lowercase, to the `ignore-words-list` field of `.codespellrc`. Regardless of the case of the word in the false positive, it must be in all lowercase in the ignore list. The ignore list is comma-separated with no spaces.
```
