workflow-templates/test-go-task.md, before:

# "Test Go" workflow (Task)

Run the [Go](https://golang.org/) module's tests.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`test-go-task.yml`](test-go-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/test-go-task/Taskfile.yml)
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/go-task/Taskfile.yml) - `DEFAULT_GO_MODULE_PATH` and `DEFAULT_GO_PACKAGES` variables
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

### Configuration

#### Workflow

If the project contains Go modules in paths other than the root of the repository, add their paths to the [job matrix](https://docs.github.com/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstrategymatrix) in `check-go-task.yml` at `jobs.test.strategy.matrix.module[].path` and the [Codecov flag](https://docs.codecov.com/docs/flags) to group their data under at `jobs.test.strategy.matrix.module[].codecov-flags`

Replace `TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME` with the repository's name (e.g., `arduino/arduino-cli`) in the `codecov/codecov-action` action's `fail_ci_if_error` input in `test-go-task.yml`.

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to `.gitignore`:

```
<application executable>
<application executable>.exe
```

(where "`<application executable>`" is the filename of the Go application's executable)

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Test Go status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME)
```

- Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).
- If the coverage badge should reflect the coverage for a branch named something other than `main`, adjust the badge URL accordingly.

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml/badge.svg["Test Go status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml"]
image:https://codecov.io/gh/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/branch/main/graph/badge.svg["Codecov", link="https://codecov.io/gh/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}"]
```

- Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).
- If the coverage badge should reflect the coverage for a branch named something other than `main`, adjust the badge URL accordingly.

## Commit message

```
Add CI workflow to test Go code

On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, run the project's Go code tests.
```

## PR message

```markdown
On every push and pull request that affects relevant files, run the project's [Go](https://golang.org/) code tests.
```

Commit message:

Improve precomposed asset installation commit and PR messages
In order to facilitate asset installation, the installation instructions include precomposed commit and pull request
messages, which can be copy and pasted by the installer.

The primordial origin of this repository was a collection of reusable GitHub Actions workflows for use in the
repositories of Arduino libraries. In those projects, it is not common to make provisions for running the checks
locally. For this reason, the precomposed messages in the original installation instructions focused exclusively on the
GitHub Actions workflow. The installation instructions in this repository inherited that same focus. However, that
approach makes less sense in this context where the primary assets are typically general purpose infrastructure, which
may be used locally by the contributor in addition to its used by the companion GitHub Actions workflow.

The precomposed commit and PR messages are adjusted to more accurately communicate the true nature of the infrastructure
being installed.

workflow-templates/test-go-task.md, after:

# "Test Go" workflow (Task)

Run the [Go](https://golang.org/) module's tests.

This is the version of the workflow for projects using the [Task](https://taskfile.dev/#/) task runner tool.

## Installation

### Workflow

Install the [`test-go-task.yml`](test-go-task.yml) GitHub Actions workflow to `.github/workflows/`

### Assets

- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/test-go-task/Taskfile.yml)
  - Install to: repository root (or merge into the existing `Taskfile.yml`).
- [`Taskfile.yml`](assets/go-task/Taskfile.yml) - `DEFAULT_GO_MODULE_PATH` and `DEFAULT_GO_PACKAGES` variables
  - Merge into `Taskfile.yml`

### Configuration

#### Workflow

If the project contains Go modules in paths other than the root of the repository, add their paths to the [job matrix](https://docs.github.com/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idstrategymatrix) in `check-go-task.yml` at `jobs.test.strategy.matrix.module[].path` and the [Codecov flag](https://docs.codecov.com/docs/flags) to group their data under at `jobs.test.strategy.matrix.module[].codecov-flags`

Replace `TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME` with the repository's name (e.g., `arduino/arduino-cli`) in the `codecov/codecov-action` action's `fail_ci_if_error` input in `test-go-task.yml`.

#### `.gitignore`

Add the following to `.gitignore`:

```
<application executable>
<application executable>.exe
```

(where "`<application executable>`" is the filename of the Go application's executable)

### Readme badge

Markdown badge:

```markdown
[![Test Go status](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/TODO_REPO_OWNER/TODO_REPO_NAME)
```

- Replace the `TODO_REPO_OWNER` and `TODO_REPO_NAME` placeholders in the URLs with the final repository owner and name ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud/master/README.md)).
- If the coverage badge should reflect the coverage for a branch named something other than `main`, adjust the badge URL accordingly.

---

Asciidoc badge:

```adoc
image:https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml/badge.svg["Test Go status", link="https://github.com/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/actions/workflows/test-go-task.yml"]
image:https://codecov.io/gh/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}/branch/main/graph/badge.svg["Codecov", link="https://codecov.io/gh/{repository-owner}/{repository-name}"]
```

- Define the `{repository-owner}` and `{repository-name}` attributes and use them throughout the readme ([example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino-libraries/WiFiNINA/master/README.adoc)).
- If the coverage badge should reflect the coverage for a branch named something other than `main`, adjust the badge URL accordingly.

## Commit message

```
Add infrastructure to test Go code

A task is provided to run the project's Go code tests.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that
changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also
triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```

## PR message

```markdown
A task is provided to run the project's [Go](https://golang.org/) code tests.

A GitHub Actions workflow is included to automatically run the task. The workflow is triggered on any push or pull that changes relevant project files, in order to avoid the introduction of problems with the project filesystem. It is also triggered periodically, in order to catch breakage caused by external changes.
```
